>> Estelle: We're gonna continue
on with HTML tables and
the CSS associated with tables.
The URL for
this is still at my
estelle.github.io/cssmastery/tables
if at any point you get lost.
You don't have to remember all of that,
just go to estelle.github.io,
that's the only part you need to remember.
And then hopefully you'll realize that we
are still talking about tables if we're
in the tables section.
So,
>> Estelle: We used to use tables for
layout.
And I don't know if anyone here
has been doing the web for
that long, but about 14 years ago,
we slowly stopped.
And I think about ten years ago,
we fully stopped,
and people stopped
learning how to do that.
But tables are still important if you're
going to do the presentation of data.
Now, depends what type of data.
If you're gonna have someone's face
with a description next to it and then
someone else like your board of directors
on a web page, a table's not appropriate.
But if you are presenting
data comparing it and
something that you might be
able to sort or to calculate or
that you need to cross-reference, that
would be an appropriate use of a table.
So if you ever need to sort something,
a table might be the right thing,
even if you don't include
functionality to the sort.
Like you're never gonna sort
days on a calendar, but
a table might be a right layout for that.
Cuz it is kind of a table of weeks and
months and
years, but you could also use list items.
But if you're going to do all
the different types of ice cream with
the calories you should be shot,
cuz we don't want to know.
But basically, it's not for presentation,
if something's presentational,
don't use tables.
But if you do need tables,
you do need to know how to use them.
So one thing people don't know
is how to actually code a table.
So there is the markup for a table,
let's actually go on to this slide first.
So the first thing that comes
inside a table is the caption and
that is used to described a table.
And then you can have column groups, and
inside those column groups are empty
elements called col,
standing for each column.
And you could actually put
a span on that column.
Then you could have the thead,
tbody, and tfoot.
You can have multiple tbodys,
you can have multiple theads and
you can have multiple tfoot.
It used to be in HTML that tfoot,
it used to be thead, tfoot, tbody.
But they change it and made it logical and
now tfoot can come after.
So, if you actually to
code the whole thing out,
it will look something like this, which is
table, opening and closing caption tags,
a column group with the one col for
each column.
Or if you're gonna have call span = 2 on
one of them then it would be one less.
Then the thead, inside the thead, the only
child inside a thead would be a table row.
And inside a table row you can have
different types of table heads.
Either table headings or tds,
I guess which stands for table data,
I'm not sure what td stands for.
And then so you close out the thead,
you can open up a tbody,
you can put in another thead and another
tbody and then you can put it in a tfoot.
You don't necessarily need a tfoot
if you're gonna total all the values
from above, or give the average of all
the calories of every single ice cream.
You should be shot, you can put
that in the tfoot at the bottom.